## Client global configs

C/P legend: C = Consumer, P = Producer, * = both

Property                                 | C/P | Range              |       Default | Description
-----------------------------------------|-----|--------------------|--------------:|--------------------------
builtin_features                         |  *  |                    | gzip, snappy, ssl, sasl, regex, lz4, sasl_gssapi, sasl_plain, sasl_scram, plugins, zstd, sasl_oauthbearer | Indicates the builtin features for this build of librdkafka. An application can either query this value or attempt to set it with its list of required features to check for library support.
client_id                                |  *  |                    |       rdkafka | Client identifier
bootstrap_servers                        |  *  |                    |               | Initial list of brokers host:port separated by comma
message_max_bytes                        |  *  | 1000 .. 1000000000 |       1000000 | Maximum Kafka protocol request message size. Due to differing framing overhead between protocol versions the producer is unable to reliably enforce a strict max message limit at produce time and may exceed the maximum size by one message in protocol ProduceRequests, the broker will enforce the the topic's `max_message_bytes` limit (see Apache Kafka documentation).
message_copy_max_bytes                   |  *  | 0 .. 1000000000    |         65535 | Maximum size for message to be copied to buffer. Messages larger than this will be passed by reference (zero-copy) at the expense of larger iovecs.
receive_message_max_bytes                |  *  | 1000 .. 2147483647 |     100000000 | Maximum Kafka protocol response message size. This serves as a safety precaution to avoid memory exhaustion in case of protocol hickups. This value must be at least `fetch_max_bytes`  + 512 to allow for protocol overhead; the value is adjusted automatically unless the configuration property is explicitly set.
max_in_flight                            |  *  | 1 .. 1000000       |       1000000 | Maximum number of in-flight requests per broker connection. This is a generic property applied to all broker communication, however it is primarily relevant to produce requests. In particular, note that other mechanisms limit the number of outstanding consumer fetch request per broker to one.
metadata_request_timeout_ms              |  *  | 10 .. 900000       |         60000 | Non-topic request timeout in milliseconds. This is for metadata requests
topic_metadata_refresh_interval_ms       |  *  | -1 .. 3600000      |        300000 | Topic metadata refresh interval in milliseconds. The metadata is automatically refreshed on error and connect. Use -1 to disable the intervalled refresh.
metadata_max_age_ms                      |  *  | 1 .. 86400000      |        900000 | Metadata cache max age. Defaults to `topic_metadata_refresh_interval_ms` * 3
topic_metadata_refresh_fast_interval_ms  |  *  | 1 .. 60000         |           250 | When a topic loses its leader a new metadata request will be enqueued with this initial interval, exponentially increasing until the topic metadata has been refreshed. This is used to recover quickly from transitioning leader brokers
topic_metadata_refresh_sparse            |  *  | true, false        |          true | Sparse metadata requests (consumes less network bandwidth)
topic_metadata_propagation_max_ms        |  *  | 0 .. 3600000       |         30000 | Apache Kafka topic creation is asynchronous and it takes some time for a new topic to propagate throughout the cluster to all brokers. If a client requests topic metadata after manual topic creation but before the topic has been fully propagated to the broker the client is requesting metadata from, the topic will seem to be non-existent and the client will mark the topic as such, failing queued produced messages with `ERR__UNKNOWN_TOPIC`. This setting delays marking a topic as non-existent until the configured propagation max time has passed. The maximum propagation time is calculated from the time the topic is first referenced in the client.
topic_blacklist                          |  *  |                    |               | Topic blacklist, a comma-separated list of regular expressions for matching topic names that should be ignored in broker metadata information as if the topics did not exist
debug                                    |  *  | generic, broker, topic, metadata, feature, queue, msg, protocol, cgrp, security, fetch, interceptor, plugin, consumer, admin, eos, mock, assignor, conf, all
socket_timeout_ms                        |  *  | 10 .. 300000       |         60000 | Timeout for network requests
socket_send_buffer_bytes                 |  *  | 0 .. 100000000     |             0 | Broker socket send buffer size. System default is used if 0
socket_receive_buffer_bytes              |  *  | 0 .. 100000000     |             0 | Broker socket receive buffer size. System default is used if 0
socket_keepalive_enable                  |  *  | true, false        |         false | Enable TCP keep-alives (SO_KEEPALIVE) on broker sockets
socket_nagle_disable                     |  *  | true, false        |         false | Disable the Nagle algorithm on broker sockets (TCP_NODELAY)
socket_max_fails                         |  *  | 0 .. 1000000       |             1 | Disconnect from broker when this number of send failures (e.g., timed out requests) is reached. Disable with 0. NOTE: The connection is automatically re-established
broker_address_ttl                       |  *  | 0 .. 86400000      |          1000 | How long to cache the broker address resolving results (milliseconds)
broker_address_family                    |  *  | any, v4, v6        |           any | Allowed broker IP address families: any, v4, v6
reconnect_backoff_ms                     |  *  | 0 .. 3600000       |           100 | The initial time to wait before reconnecting to a broker after the connection has been closed. The time is increased exponentially until `reconnect.backoff.max.ms` is reached. -25% to +50% jitter is applied to each reconnect backoff. A value of 0 disables the backoff and reconnects immediately. 
reconnect_backoff_max_ms                 |  *  | 0 .. 3600000       |         10000 | The maximum time to wait before reconnecting to a broker after the connection has been closed. 
statistics_interval_ms                   |  *  | 0 .. 86400000      |             0 | Statistics emit interval. The application also needs to register a stats callback using `stats_callback` config. The granularity is 1000ms. A value of 0 disables statistics.
enabled_events                           |  *  | 0 .. 2147483647 |                0 | Enable event sourcing. A bitmask of events to enable for consuming.
stats_callback                           |  *  | module or fun/2    |       undefined| A callback where stats are sent
log_level                                |  *  | 0 .. 7             |             6 | Logging level (syslog(3) levels)
log_queue                                |  *  | true, false        |         false | Disable spontaneous log_cb from internal librdkafka threads, instead enqueue log messages on queue set with `rd_kafka_set_log_queue()` and serve log callbacks or events through the standard poll APIs. **NOTE**: Log messages will linger in a temporary queue until the log queue has been set.
log_thread_name                          |  *  | true, false        |          true | Print internal thread name in log messages (useful for debugging librdkafka internals).
enable_random_seed                       |  *  | true, false        |          true | If enabled librdkafka will initialize the PRNG with srand(current_time.milliseconds) on the first invocation of rd_kafka_new() (required only if rand_r() is not available on your platform). If disabled the application must call srand() prior to calling rd_kafka_new().
log_connection_close                     |  *  | true, false        |          true | Log broker disconnects. It might be useful to turn this off when interacting with 0.9 brokers with an aggressive `connection_max_idle_ms` value.
api_version_request                      |  *  | true, false        |         true | Request broker's supported API versions to adjust functionality to available protocol features. If set to false, or the ApiVersionRequest fails, the fallback version `broker_version_fallback` will be used. **NOTE**: Depends on broker version >=0.10.0. If the request is not supported by (an older) broker the `broker_version_fallback` fallback is used
api_version_request_timeout_ms           |  *  | 1 .. 300000        |         10000 | Timeout for broker API version requests.
api_version_fallback_ms                  |  *  | 0 .. 604800000     |       0      | Dictates how long the `broker_version_fallback` fallback is used in the case the ApiVersionRequest fails. **NOTE**: The ApiVersionRequest is only issued when a new connection to the broker is made (such as after an upgrade)
broker_version_fallback                  |  *  |                    |         0.10.0 | Older broker versions (<0.10.0) provides no way for a client to query for supported protocol features (ApiVersionRequest, see `api_version_request`) making it impossible for the client to know what features it may use. As a workaround a user may set this property to the expected broker version and the client will automatically adjust its feature set accordingly if the ApiVersionRequest fails (or is disabled). The fallback broker version will be used for `api_version_fallback_ms`. Valid values are: 0.9.0, 0.8.2, 0.8.1, 0.8.0.
security_protocol                        |  *  | plaintext, ssl, sasl_plaintext, sasl_ssl |     plaintext | Protocol used to communicate with brokers
ssl_cipher_suites                        |  *  |                 |               | A cipher suite is a named combination of authentication, encryption, MAC and key exchange algorithm used to negotiate the security settings for a network connection using TLS or SSL network protocol. See manual page for `ciphers(1)` and `SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list(3)
ssl_curves_list                          |  *  |                 |               | The supported-curves extension in the TLS ClientHello message specifies the curves (standard/named, or 'explicit' GF(2^k) or GF(p)) the client is willing to have the server use. See manual page for `SSL_CTX_set1_curves_list(3)`. OpenSSL >= 1.0.2 required.
ssl_sigalgs_list                         |  *  |                 |               | The client uses the TLS ClientHello signature_algorithms extension to indicate to the server which signature/hash algorithm pairs may be used in digital signatures. See manual page for `SSL_CTX_set1_sigalgs_list(3)`. OpenSSL >= 1.0.2 required.
ssl_key_location                         |  *  |                 |               | Path to client's private key (PEM) used for authentication.
ssl_key_password                         |  *  |                 |               | Private key passphrase
ssl_key_pem                              |  *  |                 |               | Client's private key string (PEM format) used for authentication. 
ssl_certificate_location                 |  *  |                 |               | Path to client's public key (PEM) used for authentication.
ssl_certificate_pem                      |  *  |                 |               | Client's public key string (PEM format) used for authentication.
ssl_ca_location                          |  *  |                 |               | File or directory path to CA certificate(s) for verifying the broker's key.
ssl_crl_location                         |  *  |                 |               | Path to CRL for verifying broker's certificate validity.
ssl_keystore_location                    |  *  |                 |               | Path to client's keystore (PKCS#12) used for authentication.
ssl_keystore_password                    |  *  |                 |               | Client's keystore (PKCS#12) password.
enable_ssl_certificate_verification      |  *  | true, false     |          true | Enable OpenSSL's builtin broker (server) certificate verification.
ssl_endpoint_identification_algorithm    |  *  | none, https     |          none | Endpoint identification algorithm to validate broker hostname using broker certificate. https - Server (broker) hostname verification as specified in RFC2818. none - No endpoint verification. OpenSSL >= 1.0.2 required. 
sasl_mechanisms                          |  *  |                 |        GSSAPI | SASL mechanism to use for authentication. Supported: GSSAPI, PLAIN, SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512. **NOTE**: Despite the name only one mechanism must be configured.
sasl_kerberos_service_name               |  *  |                 |         kafka | Kerberos principal name that Kafka runs as
sasl_kerberos_principal                  |  *  |                 |   kafkaclient | This client's Kerberos principal name.
sasl_kerberos_kinit_cmd                  |  *  |                 |  | Full kerberos kinit command string, %{config.prop.name} is replaced by corresponding config object value, %{broker.name} returns the broker's hostname
sasl_kerberos_keytab                     |  *  |                 |               | Path to Kerberos keytab file. Uses system default if not set.**NOTE**: This is not automatically used but must be added to the template in `sasl_kerberos_kinit_cmd` as ` ... -t %{sasl_kerberos_keytab}`
sasl_kerberos_min_time_before_relogin    |  *  | 0 .. 86400000   |         60000 | Minimum time in milliseconds between key refresh attempts.
sasl_username                            |  *  |                 |               | SASL username for use with the PLAIN and SASL-SCRAM-.. mechanisms
sasl_password                            |  *  |                 |               | SASL password for use with the PLAIN and SASL-SCRAM-.. mechanism
sasl_oauthbearer_config                  |  *  |                 |               | SASL/OAUTHBEARER configuration. The format is implementation-dependent and must be parsed accordingly. The default unsecured token implementation (see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515#appendix-A.5) recognizes space-separated name=value pairs with valid names including principalClaimName, principal, scopeClaimName, scope, and lifeSeconds. The default value for principalClaimName is "sub", the default value for scopeClaimName is "scope", and the default value for lifeSeconds is 3600. The scope value is CSV format with the default value being no/empty scope. For example: `principalClaimName=azp principal=admin scopeClaimName=roles scope=role1,role2 lifeSeconds=600`. In addition, SASL extensions can be communicated to the broker via `extension_NAME=value`. For example: `principal=admin extension_traceId=123`.
enable_sasl_oauthbearer_unsecure_jwt     |  *  | true, false     |         false | Enable the builtin unsecure JWT OAUTHBEARER token handler if no oauthbearer_refresh_cb has been set. This builtin handler should only be used for development or testing, and not in production.
plugin_library_paths                     |  *  |                 |       undefined| Path where `librdkafka` plugins are located
group_instance_id                        |  C  |                 |               | Enable static group membership. Static group members are able to leave and rejoin a group within the configured `session.timeout.ms` without prompting a group rebalance. This should be used in combination with a larger `session.timeout.ms` to avoid group rebalances caused by transient unavailability (e.g. process restarts). Requires broker version >= 2.3.0.
partition_assignment_strategy            |  C  |                 | range, roundrobin | Name of partition assignment strategy to use when elected group leader assigns partitions to group members
session_timeout_ms                       |  C  | 1 .. 3600000    |         10000 | Client group session and failure detection timeout
heartbeat_interval_ms                    |  C  | 1 .. 3600000    |          3000 | Group session keepalive heartbeat interval
group_protocol_type                      |  C  |                 |    consumer   | Group protocol type. NOTE: Currently, the only supported group protocol type is `consumer`.
coordinator_query_interval_ms            |  C  | 1 .. 3600000    |        600000 | How often to query for the current client group coordinator. If the currently assigned coordinator is down the configured query interval will be divided by ten to more quickly recover in case of coordinator reassignment
max_poll_interval_ms                     |  C  | 1 .. 86400000   |        300000 | Maximum allowed time between calls to consume messages (e.g., rd_kafka_consumer_poll()) for high-level consumers. If this interval is exceeded the consumer is considered failed and the group will rebalance in order to reassign the partitions to another consumer group member. Warning: Offset commits may be not possible at this point. The interval is checked two times per second. See KIP-62 for more information.
auto_commit_interval_ms                  |  C  | 0 .. 86400000   |          5000 | The frequency in milliseconds that the consumer offsets are committed (written) to offset storage. (0 = disable). This setting is used by the high-level consumer
queued_min_messages                      |  C  | 1 .. 10000000   |        100000 | Minimum number of messages per topic+partition in the local consumer queue
queued_max_messages_kbytes               |  C  | 1 .. 1000000000 |         65536 | Maximum number of kilobytes per topic+partition in the local consumer queue. This value may be overshot by `fetch_message_max_bytes`
fetch_wait_max_ms                        |  C  | 0 .. 300000     |           500 | Maximum time the broker may wait to fill the response with `fetch_min_bytes`
fetch_message_max_bytes                  |  C  | 1 .. 1000000000 |       1048576 | Initial maximum number of bytes per topic+partition to request when fetching messages from the broker. If the client encounters a message larger than this value it will gradually try to increase it until the entire message can be fetched
fetch_max_bytes                          |  C  | 0 .. 2147483135 |      52428800 | Maximum amount of data the broker shall return for a Fetch request. Messages are fetched in batches by the consumer and if the first message batch in the first non-empty partition of the Fetch request is larger than this value, then the message batch will still be returned to ensure the consumer can make progress. The maximum message batch size accepted by the broker is defined via `message_max_bytes` (broker config) or `max_message_bytes` (broker topic config). `fetch_max_bytes` is automatically adjusted upwards to be at least `message_max_bytes` (consumer config).
fetch_min_bytes                          |  C  | 1 .. 100000000  |             1 | Minimum number of bytes the broker responds with. If fetch.wait.max.ms expires the accumulated data will be sent to the client regardless of this setting
fetch_error_backoff_ms                   |  C  | 0 .. 300000     |           500 | How long to postpone the next fetch request for a topic+partition in case of a fetch error
isolation_level                          |  C  | read_uncommitted, read_committed | read_committed | Controls how to read messages written transactionally: `read_committed` - only return transactional messages which have been committed. `read_uncommitted` - return all messages, even transactional messages which have been aborted.
check_crcs                               |  C  | true, false     |         false | Verify CRC32 of consumed messages, ensuring no on-the-wire or on-disk corruption to the messages occurred. This check comes at slightly increased CPU usage
allow_auto_create_topics                 |  C  | true, false     |         true | Allow automatic topic creation on the broker when subscribing to or assigning non-existent topics. The broker must also be configured with `auto.create.topics.enable=true` for this configuration to take effect. Requires broker version >= 0.11.0.0, for older broker versions only the broker configuration applies.
client_rack                              |  *  |                 |              | A rack identifier for this client. This can be any string value which indicates where this client is physically located. It corresponds with the broker config `broker.rack`.
transactional_id                         |  P  |                 |              | Enables the transactional producer. The transactional.id is used to identify the same transactional producer instance across process restarts. It allows the producer to guarantee that transactions corresponding to earlier instances of the same producer have been finalized prior to starting any new transactions, and that any zombie instances are fenced off. If no transactional.id is provided, then the producer is limited to idempotent delivery (if enable.idempotence is set). Requires broker version >= 0.11.0.
transaction.timeout.ms                   |  P  | 1000 .. 2147483647 |     60000 | The maximum amount of time in milliseconds that the transaction coordinator will wait for a transaction status update from the producer before proactively aborting the ongoing transaction. If this value is larger than the `transaction.max.timeout.ms` setting in the broker, the init_transactions() call will fail with ERR_INVALID_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT. The transaction timeout automatically adjusts `message.timeout.ms` and `socket.timeout.ms`, unless explicitly configured in which case they must not exceed the transaction timeout (`socket.timeout.ms` must be at least 100ms lower than `transaction.timeout.ms`). This is also the default timeout value if no timeout (-1) is supplied to the transactional API methods.
enable_idempotence                       |  P  | true, false     |         false | When set to `true`, the producer will ensure that messages are successfully produced exactly once and in the original produce order. The following configuration properties are adjusted automatically (if not modified by the user) when idempotence is enabled: `max_in_flight_requests_per_connection=5` (must be less than or equal to 5), `retries=INT32_MAX` (must be greater than 0), `acks=all`, `queuing_strategy=fifo`. Producer instantation will fail if user-supplied configuration is incompatible.
enable_gapless_guarantee                 |  P  | true, false     |          false | When set to `true`, any error that could result in a gap in the produced message series when a batch of messages fails, will raise a fatal error (ERR__GAPLESS_GUARANTEE) and stop the producer. Requires `enable_idempotence=true`.
queue_buffering_max_messages             |  P  | 1 .. 10000000   |        100000 | Maximum number of messages allowed on the producer queue.  This queue is shared by all topics and partitions.
queue_buffering_max_kbytes               |  P  | 1 .. 2147483647    |       1048576 | Maximum total message size sum allowed on the producer queue. This queue is shared by all topics and partitions. This property has higher priority than `queue_buffering_max_messages`. 
queue_buffering_max_ms                   |  P  | 0 .. 900000     |             5 | Maximum time, in milliseconds, for buffering data on the producer queue
message_send_max_retries                 |  P  | 0 .. 2147483647 |    2147483647 | How many times to retry sending a failing MessageSet. **Note:** retrying may cause reordering
retry_backoff_ms                         |  P  | 1 .. 300000     |           100 | The backoff time in milliseconds before retrying a message send
queue_buffering_backpressure_threshold   |  P  | 1 .. 1000000    |             1 | The threshold of outstanding not yet transmitted broker requests needed to backpressure the producer's message accumulator. If the number of not yet transmitted requests equals or exceeds this number, produce request creation that would have otherwise been triggered (for example, in accordance with linger.ms) will be delayed. A lower number yields larger and more effective batches. A higher value can improve latency when using compression on slow machines.
queue_buffering_overflow_strategy        |  P  | local_disk_queue, block_calling_process, drop_records | local_disk_queue| What strategy to pick in case the memory queue is full: write messages on a local disk queue and send them in kafka when the in memory queue have enough space, block calling process until memory queue has enough space or drop the messages
compression_codec                        |  P  | none, gzip, snappy, lz4, zstd |          none | compression codec to use for compressing message sets. This is the default value for all topics, may be overriden by the topic configuration property `compression_codec`
batch_num_messages                       |  P  | 1 .. 1000000    |         10000 | Maximum number of messages batched in one MessageSet. The total MessageSet size is also limited by `message_max_bytes`
batch_size                               |  P  | 1 .. 2147483647 |       1000000 | Maximum size (in bytes) of all messages batched in one MessageSet, including protocol framing overhead. This limit is applied after the first message has been added to the batch, regardless of the first message's size, this is to ensure that messages that exceed batch.size are produced. The total MessageSet size is also limited by batch_num_messages and message_max_bytes. 
delivery_report_only_error               |  P  | true, false     |         false | Only provide delivery reports for failed messages
delivery_report_callback                 |  P  | module or fun/2 |       undefined| A callback where delivery reports are sent (`erlkaf_producer_callbacks` behaviour)
sticky_partitioning_linger_ms            |  P  | 0 .. 900000     |            10 | Delay in milliseconds to wait to assign new sticky partitions for each topic. By default, set to double the time of linger.ms. To disable sticky behavior, set to 0. This behavior affects messages with the key NULL in all cases, and messages with key lengths of zero when the consistent_random partitioner is in use. These messages would otherwise be assigned randomly. A higher value allows for more effective batching of these messages.

## Topic configuration properties

C/P legend: C = Consumer, P = Producer, * = both

Property                                 | C/P | Range           |       Default | Description
-----------------------------------------|-----|-----------------|--------------:|--------------------------
request_required_acks                    |  P  | -1 .. 1000      |             -1 | This field indicates how many acknowledgements the leader broker must receive from ISR brokers before responding to the request: *0*=Broker does not send any response/ack to client, *1*=Only the leader broker will need to ack the message, *-1* or *all*=broker will block until message is committed by all in sync replicas (ISRs) or broker's `in.sync.replicas` setting before sending response.
request_timeout_ms                       |  P  | 1 .. 2147483647     |      30000 | The ack timeout of the producer request in milliseconds. This value is only enforced by the broker and relies on `request_required_acks` being != 0
message_timeout_ms                       |  P  | 0 .. 2147483647     |        0 | Local message timeout. This value is only enforced locally and limits the time a produced message waits for successful delivery. A time of 0 is infinite
partitioner                              |  P  | random,consistent,consistent_random, murmur2, murmur2_random  | consistent_random | Partitioner: `random` - random distribution, `consistent` - CRC32 hash of key (Empty and NULL keys are mapped to single partition), `consistent_random` - CRC32 hash of key (Empty and NULL keys are randomly partitioned), `murmur2` - Java Producer compatible Murmur2 hash of key (NULL keys are mapped to single partition), `murmur2_random` - Java Producer compatible Murmur2 hash of key (NULL keys are randomly partitioned. This is functionally equivalent to the default partitioner in the Java Producer.).
compression_codec                        |  P  | none, gzip, snappy, lz4, inherit, zstd |       inherit | Compression codec to use for compressing message sets
compression_level                        |  P  | -1 .. 12        |            -1 | Compression level parameter for algorithm selected by configuration property `compression_codec`. Higher values will result in better compression at the cost of more CPU usage. Usable range is algorithm-dependent: [0-9] for gzip; [0-12] for lz4; only 0 for snappy; -1 = codec-dependent default compression level.
auto_commit_interval_ms                  |  C  | 10 .. 86400000  |         60000 | The frequency in milliseconds that the consumer offsets are committed (written) to offset storage. This setting is used by the low-level legacy consumer
auto_offset_reset                        |  C  | smallest, earliest, beginning, largest, latest, end, error |       largest | Action to take when there is no initial offset in offset store or the desired offset is out of range: 'smallest','earliest' - automatically reset the offset to the smallest offset, 'largest','latest' - automatically reset the offset to the largest offset, 'error' - trigger an error.
offset_store_path                        |  C  |                 |             . | Path to local file for storing offsets. If the path is a directory a filename will be automatically generated in that directory based on the topic and partition
offset_store_sync_interval_ms            |  C  | -1 .. 86400000  |            -1 | fsync() interval for the offset file, in milliseconds. Use -1 to disable syncing, and 0 for immediate sync after each write
consume_callback_max_messages            |  C  | 0 .. 1000000    |             0 | Maximum number of messages to dispatch in one `rd_kafka_consume_callback*()` call (0 = unlimited).
dispatch_mode                            |  C  | one_by_one, {batch, integer()}  |   one_by_one  | This field indicates how messages are dispatched to the message handler. One message per callback call (default) or multiple messages up to the specified size (batch). If the batch approach is used the consumer will mark as processed the last offset form the batch.  
poll_idle_ms                             |  C  | 0 .. 86400000   |         1000  | This field specifies the idle time (in milliseconds) that the consumer will wait to schedule a new poll after an empty poll.
